### API Calls
- **Login POST**
-- This call handles logging in the for the user. It will send the username and password to Spring as a JSON. If the credentials are valid, Spring will then return a JSON Web Token (JWT) with a digest message containing the user session token. If the credentials are invalid, Spring will return a 400 HTTP Bad Request status code.
- **Forgot POST**
-- This call will handle the Forget Password use case. It will send an email address to Spring as a JSON. If the email address is registered in the database, Spring will generate a reset token and send an email to the address. The email will contain a link that will handle resetting the password. If the email address is not registered in the database, Spring will return with a 400 HTTP Bad Request status code.
- **Register POST**
-- This call will handle user Registration. It will send a First Name, Last Name, Email Address, Nickname, and Password to Spring as a JSON. Spring will register an account with those JSON values and it returns with a 200 HTTP OK Request status code. If any values are invalid, Spring will return a 400 HTTP Bad Request status code.
- **VerifyConfirm GET**
-- This call will handle confirming an account after registration. It requests the confirmation URL that validates the confirmation token generated during registration. Spring will then respond with a JSON that contains a boolean and a message. If the confirmation URL was valid, the user is enabled. Otherwise the confirmation URL was invalid and the user must request a new valid token.
- **VerifyReset GET**
-- This call will handle verifying the reset token after the user clicks on the link after the "Forgot Password" form. It requests the reset URL and checks if the reset token sent and the reset token in the database match. Spring will then respond with a JSON that contains a boolean and message. If the URL was valid, the user will be able to reset their password. Otherwise if the reset URL is invalid, the user must request a new valid token.
- **VerifyNewEmail GET**
-- This call will handle verifying a new email that a user has set on their account. It sends a token and the new email associated with the current user to Spring. Spring then generates a timestamp of the current time and finds the user associated with the token. From there it firstly checks if 24 hours has passed since the token was generated to see if it's expired. If it is then Spring returns a 410 HTTP Gone status code. Otherwise Spring will set the new email of the user to the new email, clears the token, saves the changes onto the database and sends a 200 HTTP OK status code. If any errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 500 Internal Server error status code.
- **ResetPassword POST**
-- This call will handle resetting a user's password. It sends a request for a JSON from Spring with the reset token from the reset URL and a new password. Spring will then use the token to find the user account and overwrite the password with the new one from the JSON. Spring will then set the reset token to NULL. Spring then responds with a 200 HTTP OK status code. If spring was unable to reset the password, Spring will respond with a 400 HTTP Bad Request status code.
- **ChangePassword POST**
-- This call will handle changing a user's password. It  sends a new password to Spring in the form of a JSON. Spring will then take that password and overwrite the password for the current user. If successful, it returns a 200 HTTP OK  Request response status code. Otherwise, Spring returns a 300 Bad Request response status code.
- **CheckEmailAvailability GET**
-- This call will handle checking if an email is already registered in the database. It sends a request with a String and Spring then checks if the provided email is already registered in the database. If the given email is already registered, then the user will not be permitted to register for an account, otherwise the user will be allowed to create a new account.
- **CheckNicknameAvailability GET**
-- This call will handle checking if a nickname is already registered in the database. It sends a request with a String and Spring then checks if the provided nickname is already reigstered in the database. If the nickname is already registered, then the user will not be allowed to register for an account with that nickname, otherwise the user will be allowed to create a new account.
- **GetCurrentuser GET**
-- This call will handle retrieving the current user. The client sends a token to Spring, where Spring then parses the token, decrypts it, then authenticates it and pulls the ID, email, nickname, and roles of the user. The value that is returned will return a user based on the JWT Token, if no user is found then the function returns nothing.
- **GetuserBrief GET**
-- This call will handle returning a brief user object. Spring takes in a nickname that is associated with the user and locates the account from the database. If the user is not found then Spring returns a 404 HTTP NOT FOUND status code. Otherwise Spring pulls the user from the database and returns a 200 HTTP OK Status code along with a JSON containing the user nickname, first name, last name and base64 encoded profile picture. If any other errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **CreateBar POST**
-- This call will handle creating a new Bar. Spring will receive a barRequest object containing a bar name, description, image, list of managers, list of workers, and list of recipes available for that bar. Spring will then gather a full list of users affiliated with that bar and create a new bar object with the tokens provided in the barRequest object. Finally, Spring will add the Bar to each of the users and save it to the database. If successful, Spring will return a 200 HTTP OK response status code. Otherwise, Spring will return a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetBarProfile GET**
-- This call will handle pulling a Bar profile from the database. Spring will receive a barID variable and pull the Bar object from the database and gather all the information including: name, description, a base64 encoded image, owner, managers, workers, and recipes associated with the bar. If successful, Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK response status code with an object containing all these tokens. Otherwise Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetBarBrief GET**
--  This call will handle returning a brief Bar object. Spring takes in a Bar ID and locates the Bar from the database. If the Bar is not found then Spring returns a 404 HTTP NOT FOUND status code. Otherwise Spring pulls the Bar from the database and returns a 200 HTTP OK Status code along with a JSON containing the Bar ID, name, base64 encoded profile picture, and the nickname of the owner. If any other errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **ChangeBarSettings POST**
-- This call will handle changing the settings of a Bar. Spring first checks if the current user is either the owner or a manager of the Bar. The Owner gets full access in terms of changing the Bar settings, which includes: managing Managers, Workers, and recipes. However, if the current user is a Manager then they are allowed to manage Workers and recipes, but not other Managers. In either case once the settings are saved Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK response status code. If the current user is neither the Owner nor a Manager, then Spring returns a 401 HTTP Unauthorized status code. If there is an error that comes up along the process then Spring returns a 500 Internal Server Error status code.
- **DeleteBar POST**
-- This call will handle deleting a Bar. Spring takes in a barID as well as the current user. If the user is the Owner of the Bar then they are given permission to delete the Bar. Otherwise, Spring returns a 401 HTTP Unauthorized response status code. Spring pulls the Bar from the repository and removes it from all users associated with it, then deletes the Bar from the Bar repository and returns a 200 HTTP OK response status code. If any internal errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetequipmentProfile GET**
-- This call will handle returning a specific piece of equipment from the database. Spring takes in the name of the piece of equipment and pulls the equipment object from the database and pulls: the name, base64 encoded image, type, list of Actions done by the equipment and a list of Actions done to the equipment. If successful, Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code. Otherwise, Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetequipmentBrief GET**
-- This call will handle returning a brief equipment object. Spring takes in the name of the equipment and locates the piece of equipment from the equipment repository. If the piece of equipment is not found then Spring returns a 404 HTTP NOT FOUND status code. Otherwise Spring pulls the equipment from the database and returns with a 200 HTTP OK status code along with a JSON containing the name, base64 encoded profile picture and and the equipment type.
- **GetAllequipment GET**
-- This will handle pulling a full list of all equipment from the database. Spring will access the equipment repository and gather a full list of details from each piece of equipment containing a name, image, and type. If successful, Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code. Otherwise, Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetAllequipmentTypes GET**
-- Placeholder for GetAllequipmentTypes
- **CheckequipmentNameIsPresent GET**
-- This call will handle checking if a specific piece of equipment is present. Spring takes in a name of a piece of equipment and it returns a boolean checking if a specific piece of equipment exists in the equipment repository.
- **Createrecipe POST**
-- This call will handle creating a new recipe. Spring takes in a recipeRequest JSON object that contains a name, description, base64 encoded image, whether it has been published or not, the list of Step objects, the list of equipment objects, and two boolean variables indicating whether the user has edited the steps or equipment in the recipe. From there, Spring will compile a new recipe object to add to the database based on the JSON provided and saves it to the database. If successful, Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code. Otherwise, Spring returns a 400 HTTP Bad Request status code.
- **GetrecipeProfile GET**
-- This call will handle returning a specific recipe from the database. Spring takes in the current user and the name of the recipe ID the user is trying to pull. Spring first verifies that the recipe exists on the database and that the current user is the owner of the recipe. If the recipe is published or if the ID of the owner of the recipe doesn't match the current user then the user is denied access and Spring returns a 404 HTTP Not found status code. Otherwise Spring builds the author, list of steps, and list of equipment and compiles that along with the recipe information to build a recipeResponse object. If successful, Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code along with the recipe Response object. If errors are found along the way, then Spring returns a 500 Internal Server error status code.
- **GetrecipeBrief GET**
-- This call will handle returning a brief recipe object. Spring takes in a recipe ID and it initially checks if the recipe exists in the repository. If it doesn't exists then Spring will return a 404 HTTP Not Found Status code. Otherwise, Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code along with a JSON that contains the recipe ID, name, base64 encoded image, and nickname of the author. If any other errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetStep GET**
-- This call will handle returning the Step object from a specific recipe. Spring takes in the current user, recipe ID, and the index of the requested step. The recipe is pulled from the database, and Spring checks if the recipe is found in the user's list of incompleted recipes. It retrieves the step fro, the recipe, and returns a StepResponse object along with a 200 HTTP OK status code. If the list isn't found in the user's list of incompelted recipes then Spring returns a 401 HTTP Unauthorized status code. If any other errors take place along the way then Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code. 
- **ChangerecipeSettings POST**
-- This call will handle changing the settings of a given recipe. Spring takes in the recipe ID, the current user, and a recipeRequest JSON. Spring checks if the current user is an author of the recipe or an Admin. If not, Spring returns a 401 HTTP Unauthorized status code. Otherwise, Spring proceeds to retrieve the recipe that matches the recipe ID provided from the database and apply the changes from the recipeRequest object to the recipe in the database. Spring updates the name, description, base64 encoded image, whether it has been published or not, the list of steps, and the list of equipment. If successful, Spring saves the updated recipe onto the database and returns a 200 HTTP OK status code. If Spring runs into any errors, it returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server error status code.
- **Deleterecipe POST**
-- This call will handle deleting a recipe. Spring takes in a recipe ID along with the current user. If the current user is an admin or an author of the recipe, then Spring will disassociate the recipe from the user, delete all the steps from the recipe, and deletes the recipe itself. Afterwards, Spring returns a 450 HTTP status code. If not, then Spring returns a 401 HTTP Unauthorized status code. If any other errors take place, then Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetAllUnits GET**
-- This will handle retrieving the list of units. Spring pulls all the Units form the Unit repository and adds a UnitResponse object containing the name of the unit, and their equivalent measurements in milliliters and fluid ounces. Afterwards, Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code along with a JSON containing a list of units. If any internal errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetuserProfile GET**
-- This will handle retrieving a user profile. Spring takes in a nickname as input and matches it to a user in the user repository. It gathers the name, profile picture, first name, last name, recipes written, recipes completed, and incomplete recipes done by the user. Afterwards Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code along with the JSON compiled from these tokens. If any internal errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 400 HTTP Bad Request status code.
- **ChangeuserSettings POST**
-- This call will handle changing user settings. Spring takes in a request object that contains the edits made by the user to their settings. Spring overwrites the previous values it had stored with the new changes. For changing an email, the previously set email address will receive a notification email saying that the email will be changed, and the new email will receive a verification email to confirm the email change. The changes are saved to the user object and Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code. If any internal errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 400 HTTP Bad Request status code.
- **GetuserSettings GET**
--  This will handle retrieving the current user's settings. Spring pulls the current user and maps it to a user on the database. From there Spring creates a JSON that contains the user's first name, last name, email, base64 encoded profile picture, and set measurement. Afterwards Spring returns a 200 HTTP OK status code. If any internal errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 400 HTTP Bad Request status code.
- **Search GET**
-- This call will handle searching for an object in the database whether that be a piece of equipment, Bar, recipe, or user. Spring takes in the type of search and a String containing the term that the user is trying to search for. 
If the type of search is for other users then Spring searches for any user in the database whose nickname is similar to the provided String. If any users match the given query then Spring will return a 200 HTTP OK status code along with a list of JSONs each containing a nickname, first name, last name, and base64 encoded profile picture.

If the type of search is for Bars then Spring searches for any Bar in the database whose nickname is similar to the provided String. If any Bars match the given query then Spring will return a 200 HTTP OK status code along with a list of JSONs each containing an ID, name, base64 encoded profile picture and the nickname of the owner.

If the type of search is for recipes then Spring searches for any recipe in the database whose name is similar to the provided String. If any recipes match the given query then Spring will return a 200 HTTP OK status code along with a list of JSONs each containing an ID, name, base64 encoded profile image, and the nickname of the author.

If the type of search is for equipment then Spring searches for any piece of equipment in the database whose name is similar to the provided String. If any equipments match the given query then Spring will return a 200 HTTP OK status code along with a list of JSONs each containing a name, base64 encoded profile picture, and equipment type.

For any of these queries if no results are found in the database then Spring will return a 404 HTTP Bad Request status code. If any other errors take place along the way, Spring will return a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.
- **GetRecipeStats GET**
-- This call will handle retrieving the statistics of a recipe. Spring takes in the current user and the ID of the recipe you are trying to pull the statistics from. Spring initially maps the currentUser object and the recipe ID to their respective objects in the database. If the recipe ID doesn't match a recipe in a database then Spring returns a 404 HTTP Not Found status code. If the recipe is found then it checks if the recipe is both published and that the current user is the author of the recipe. If not, Spring returns a 404 HTTP Not Found status code. Otherwise it pulls the list of games played from the recipe and iterates through the list of games. For each game it checks each user that has made progress in the game and appends a StatResponse object that contains a BriefUserResponse, the progress made in the game, and whether or not the game has been completed. Once Spring has finished generating the set of StatResponse objects it returns a 200 HTTP OK status code along with a set of JSONs formed through iterating those games. If any other errors take place along the way, Spring returns a 500 HTTP Internal Server Error status code.